My First Ruby Gem Project

During the course of this class. I have experinced a very unique learning curve of coding, and that was especially exemplified during my time creating my first ruby gem project. When I first began learning to code, the experience was very exciting, I was leaning a lot of things and was gaining exposure to a whole new world of creating. As time progresses, however, I  realize that although I have learned a lot, I still know very little about the world of programming and all of its capabilities. I was able to recognize and understand how data strcutures work, but not exactly how to put them all to together to create a functioning program. As I gained more experience, I entered another period where some algorithms became easy to code, and I was ready to build the next best full-stack app. Then, I start to learn more complex concepts and I realized, once again, that I have a long way to go. These constant highs and lows in my confidence of ability, perfectly describe my coding experience while dsigning my first gem. 

Although many of the smaller programs that I was building in the learn curriculm required some outside research and resources, it was nothing like the research I had to do while building my own project. I watched many videos, read plenty of documentation, and still encountered many of my own seemingly unfixable bugs. I learned to take frequent breaks to refresh my brain so that I may better understand not only what my errors were, but why I was receiving those errors and how to solve them. A constant battle of breaking and fixing my project again.

There were so many design decisions and possibilities that I could have taken whilst building this project. For example, scraping vs. API and class methods vs instance methods. Assigning classes to perform specific jobs and learning to decouple my code was a challenge. I had to be sure that each class performed only their desired functions with their designed methods while also handling user error without crashing the program.  This forced me to think inside and outside of the box, and from every angle in order to factor each way that something could go wrong and crash my program. 

I thoroghly enjoyed building this project. Although I encountered many obstacles, and many error messages, it was all worth it to have a functioing program that I created. I’m excited to further my knowledge in the world of coding, and continue to ride my learning curve rollercoaster. 
